docs(release): version prefix dependents (#28729)
nrwl/nx: docs/shared/recipes/nx-release/configuration-version-prefix.md

# Configuring Version Prefix for Dependency Versions

This guide explains how to configure a custom version prefix in Nx Release using the `versionPrefix` option. The version prefix allows you to automatically add a specific prefix format to dependencies, providing control over how dependency versions are specified in your project’s `package.json` files.

## The `versionPrefix` Option

> The `versionPrefix` option controls which prefix is applied to dependency versions during the versioning process. By default, `versionPrefix` is set to `"auto"`, which selects a prefix format (either `""`, `"~"`, `"^"`, or `"="`) based on your project’s settings or dependencies.

Reviewer: I'm not sure what is meant by "project settings" here. It simply respects what is already present in the `package.json` for that dependency relationship

E.g. a patch bump

- if `"dep": "1.2.3"`, then `"dep": "1.2.4`
- if `"dep": "~1.2.3"`, then `"dep": "~1.2.4`
- if `"dep": "^1.2.3"`, then `"dep": "^1.2.4`

Author: Thanks @JamesHenry for this,  I've updated the documentation for this section and added an example to explain auto in more detail

### Available Prefix Options

You can set `versionPrefix` to one of the following values:

> - `"auto"`: Automatically chooses a prefix based on project settings.

Reviewer: Same comment

Author: updated

- `""`: Uses the exact version without a prefix.
- `"~"`: Specifies compatibility with patch-level updates.
- `"^"`: Specifies compatibility with minor-level updates.
- `"="`: Locks the version to an exact match.

Example configuration:

```json
{
  "release": {
    "version": {
      "generatorOptions": {

>         "versionPrefix": "auto"

Reviewer: This would be redundant configuration as it is the default, maybe call that out again here inline?

Author: make sense, Let me update it

Author: updated

      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Configuring Version Prefix in `nx.json` or `project.json`

To set the versionPrefix option globally or for a specific project, add it to either your `nx.json` or `project.json` configuration files:

> ```json

Reviewer: @isaacplmann should `jsonc` be used here?

Reviewer 2: It doesn't actually change how the content is rendered.  They're interchangeable

# Configuring Version Prefix for Dependency Versions

This guide explains how to configure a custom version prefix in Nx Release using the `versionPrefix` option. The version prefix allows you to automatically add a specific prefix format to dependencies, providing control over how dependency versions are specified in your project’s `package.json` files.

## The `versionPrefix` Option

> The `versionPrefix` option controls which prefix is applied to dependency versions during the versioning process. By default, `versionPrefix` is set to `"auto"`, which selects a prefix format (either `""`, `"~"`, `"^"`, or `"="`) respect what is already in the `package.json` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `versionPrefix` option controls which prefix is applied to dependency versions during the versioning process. By default, `versionPrefix` is set to `"auto"`, which selects a prefix format (either `""`, `"~"`, `"^"`, or `"="`) by respecting what is already in the `package.json` file.
```

For example, having the following `package.json` file:

```json
{
  "name": "my-package",
  "version": "0.1.1",
  "dependencies": {
    "dependency-one": "~1.2.3",
    "dependency-two": "^2.3.4",
    "dependency-three": "3.0.0"
  }
}
```

Then next patch bump will be:

```json
{
  "name": "my-package",
  "version": "0.1.2",
  "dependencies": {
    "dependency-one": "~1.2.4",
    "dependency-two": "^2.3.4",
    "dependency-three": "3.0.0"
  }
}
```

> Preserving the prefix for `dependency-one` and `dependency-two` and not changing the prefix for `dependency-three`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Preserving the prefix for `dependency-one` and `dependency-two` and continuing to use no prefix for `dependency-three`.
```

### Available Prefix Options

You can set `versionPrefix` to one of the following values:

- `"auto"`: Automatically chooses a prefix based on the existing declaration in the `package.json` file. This is the default value.
- `""`: Uses the exact version without a prefix.
- `"~"`: Specifies compatibility with patch-level updates.
- `"^"`: Specifies compatibility with minor-level updates.

> - `"="`: Locks the version to an exact match.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `"="`: Locks the version to an exact match (this is not really used in the JavaScript ecosystem, but is in others such as Cargo for Rust).
```

Example configuration:

```json
{
  "release": {
    "version": {
      "generatorOptions": {
        "versionPrefix": "~"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Configuring Version Prefix in `nx.json` or `project.json`

To set the versionPrefix option globally or for a specific project, add it to either your `nx.json` or `project.json` configuration files:

> ```json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```jsonc
```
